---
title: Blink (Gladwell) book notes
date: 2020-07-27 12:00
layout: post
keys: [behavior]
---

## INTRO: that statue doesn't look right
#### fast & frugal
- Imagine that I were to ask you to play a very simple gambling game. In front of you are four decks of cards—two of them red and the other two blue. Each card in those four decks either wins you a sum of money or costs you some money, and your job is to turn over cards from any of the decks, one at a time, in such a way that maximizes your winnings. What you don’t know at the beginning, however, is that the red decks are a minefield. The rewards are high, but when you lose on the red cards, you lose a lot. Actually, you can win only by taking cards from the blue decks, which offer a nice steady diet of $50 payouts and modest penalties. The question is how long will it take you to figure this out?

#### the "internal computer"
- The part of our brain that leaps to conclusions like this is called the adaptive unconscious, and the study of this kind of decision making is one of the most important new fields in psychology.

#### a different & better world
- There are lots of books that tackle broad themes, that analyze the world from great remove. This is not one ofthem. Blink is concerned with the very smallest components of our everyday lives—the content and origin of those instantaneous impressions and conclusions that spontaneously arise whenever we meet a new person or confront a complex situation or have to make a decision under conditions of stress.

## ONE: thin slices
- Some years ago, a young couple came to the University of Washington to visit the laboratory of a psychologist named John Gottman.

#### the love lab
- How much do you think can be learned about Sue and Bill’s marriage by watching that fifteen-minute videotape?

#### marriage morse code
- I watched the videotape of Bill and Sue with Amber Tabares, a graduate student in Gottman’s lab who is a trained SPAFF coder.

#### the importance of contempt
- Let’s dig a little deeper into the secret of Gottman’s success rate. Gottman has discovered that marriages have distinctive signatures, and we can find that signature by collecting very detailed emotional information from the
interaction of a couple.

#### bedroom secrets
- Imagine that you are considering me for a job.

#### listening to doctors
- Let’s take the concept of thin-slicing one step further. Imagine you work for an insurance company that sells doctors medical malpractice protection. Your boss asks you to figure out for accounting reasons who, among all the physicians covered by the company, is most likely to be sued.

#### power of a glance
- It is striking, for instance, how many different professions and disciplines have a word to describe the particular gift of reading deeply into the narrowest slivers of experience.

## TWO: secret life of snap decisions
- Not long ago, one of the world’s top tennis coaches, a man named Vic Braden, began to notice something strange whenever he watched a tennis match.

#### primed for action
- Imagine that I’m a professor, and I’ve asked you to come and see me in my office. You walk down a long corridor, come through the doorway, and sit down at a table. In front of you is a sheet of paper with a list of five-word sets. I want you to make a grammatical four-word sentence as quickly as possible out of each set. It’s called a scrambled-sentence test.

#### the storytelling problem
- On a brisk spring evening not long ago, two dozen men and women gathered in the back room of a Manhattan bar to engage in a peculiar ritual known as speed-dating.

## THREE: the warren harding error
- Early one morning in 1899, in the back garden of the Globe Hotel in Richwood, Ohio, two men met while having their shoes shined. One was a lawyer and lobbyist from the state capital of Columbus. His name was Harry Daugherty.

#### dark side of thin slicing
- But what happens if that rapid chain of thinking gets interrupted somehow? What if we reach a snap judgment without ever getting below the surface?

#### blink in black & white
- Over the past few years, a number of psychologists have begun to look more closely at the role these kinds of unconscious — or, as they like to call them, implicit—associations play in our beliefs and behavior, and much oftheir work has focused on a very fascinating tool called the Implicit Association Test (IAT).

#### taking care of the customer
- The sales director of the Flemington Nissan dealership in the central New Jersey town of Flemington is a man named Bob Golomb.

#### spotting the sucker
- Consider a remarkable social experiment conducted in the 1990s by a law professor in Chicago named Ian Ayres.

#### think about doctor king
 Our first impressions are generated by our experiences and our environment, which means that we can change our first impressions—we can alter the way we thin-slice—by changing the experiences that comprise those impressions.

## FOUR: structure and spontaneity
- Paul Van Riper is tall and lean with a gleaming bald dome and wire-rimmed glasses. He walks with his shoulders square and has a gruff, commanding voice.

#### one morning in the gulf
- The group that runs war games for the U.S. military is called the Joint Forces Command, or, as it is better known, JFCOM.

#### structure of spontaneity
- One Saturday evening not long ago, an improvisation comedy group called Mother took the stage in a small theater in the basement of a supermarket on Manhattan’s West Side.

#### perils of introspection
#### crisis in the ER
#### when less is more
#### millenium challenge P2

## FIVE: the right/wrong way to ask people what they want
#### 2nd look at 1st impressions
#### pepsi's challenge
#### blind leading the blind
#### the chair of death
#### the gift of expertise
#### record companies

## SIX: the delicate art of mind reading
#### theory
#### the naked face
#### man, woman or light switch
#### arguing with a dog
#### running out of white space
#### "i didn't have to shoot it"
#### wheeler avenue

## CONCLUSION: lessons
#### classical music
#### a small miracle

## INDEX
